#### 5.3.2.4 Response grammar

The Query Profile always shows a response grammar. If the query response is segment pattern, the response grammar should specify the segments, order, optionality, and repetition as do message specifications within the HL7 Standard.

RTB^Znn^RTB_Knn: Response Grammar: Widget Dispense Message

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Segments | Description | Status | Sec Ref |
| MSH | Message Header |  | 2.15.9 |
| [\{SFT}] | Software Segment |  | 2.15.12 |
| [ UAC ] | User Authentication Credential |  | 2.14.13 |
| MSA | Message Acknowledgement |  | 2.15.8 |
| [ERR] | Error |  | 2.15.5 |
| [QAK](#QAK) | Query Acknowledgement |  | 5.5.2 |
| [QPD](#QPD) | Query Parameter Definition |  | 5.5.4 |
| ... |  |  |  |
| [ DSC ] | Continuation Pointer |  | 2.15.4 |

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Acknowledgement Choreography |  |  |  |
| RTB^Znn^RTB_Knn |  |  |  |
| Field name | Field Value: Original mode | Field value: Enhanced mode |  |
| MSH-15 | Blank | NE | AL, SU, ER |
| MSH-16 | Blank | AL | AL |
| Immediate Ack | - | - | ACK^Znn^ACK |

**Response Grammar**: This and the following column specify the HL7 code name and full name of each segment returned in the response. Braces specify that the segment or segment group is repeatable; brackets specify the optionality of the segment or segment group.

For Query Profiles published in the HL7 Standard, the Response Grammar table includes the Query Profile ID in parentheses in the upper left-hand cell. This allows the table to be imported automatically into the HL7 database.

**Message Description**: The full text name of the segment.

**Group Control**: The name of a segment group.

**Comment**: Specifies in English: 1) the opening or closing of a segment group, and 2) the relevance of the segment in a Hit Count. (Only positive value is noted.)

**Support Indicator**: Allows the Server to indicate: 1) whether an optional segment or segment group will be supported, or 2) that the segment or segment group is dependent on an input parameter. The default understanding is that if the Server knows the information, it will be sent.

**Sec Ref**: Specifies where in the standard further information about the segment can be found.
