#### 11.8.2.6 AUT-6 Authorization Identifier (EI) 01151

Components: &lt;Entity Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Namespace ID (IS)> ^ &lt;Universal ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Universal ID Type (ID)>

Definition: This field contains the coverage application’s permanent identifier assigned to track the authorization and all related billing documents. This field is conditionally required. It is not required when authorization information is being requested. However, it is required when this segment is contained in a message which is responding to a request and contains the authorization information. This is a composite field.

The first component of this field is a string of up to 15 characters that identifies an individual authorization. It is assigned by the coverage application, and it identifies an authorization, and the subsequent billing transactions resulting from the given authorization, uniquely among all such authorizations granted from a particular processing application.

The second component is optional because this field, itself, is already defined as an _authorization identifier_.

The third component is optional. If used it should contain the application identifier for the coverage application. The application identifier is a string of up to six characters that is uniquely associated with an application. A given healthcare provider facility, or group of intercommunicating healthcare provider facilities, should establish a unique list of applications that may be potential originators and recipients, and then assign unique application identifiers to each of those applications. This list of application identifiers becomes one of the healthcare provider facility’s master dictionary lists. Since applications fulfilling different application roles can send and receive referral messages containing authorizations, the coverage application identifier may not identify the application sending or receiving a particular message. Data elements on the Message Header (MSH) segment are available to identify the actual sending and receiving applications.
