#### 11.8.1.11 RF1-11 External Referral Identifier (EI) 01300

Components: &lt;Entity Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Namespace ID (IS)> ^ &lt;Universal ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Universal ID Type (ID)>

Definition: This field contains an external application’s permanent identifier for the referral. That is, this referral identifier does not belong to the application that originated the referral and assigned the originating referral identifier.

The first component is a string of up to 15 characters that identifies an individual referral. It is typically assigned by the referred-to provider application responding to a referral originating from a referring provider application, and it identifies a referral, and the subsequent referral transactions, uniquely among all such referrals for a particular referred-to provider processing application. For example, when a primary care provider (referring provider) sends a referral to a specialist (referred-to provider), the specialist’s application system may accept the referral and assign it a new referral identifier which uniquely identifies that particular referral within the specialist’s application system. This new referral identifier would be placed in the external referral identifier field when the specialist responds to the primary care physician.

The second component is optional because this field, itself, is already defined as a _referral identifier_.

The third component is optional. If used, it should contain the application identifier for the referred-to or external application (i.e., not the originating application). The application identifier is a string of up to 15 characters that is uniquely associated with an application. A given healthcare provider facility, or group of intercommunicating healthcare provider facilities, should establish a unique list of applications that may be potential originators and recipients, and then assign unique application identifiers to each of those applications. This list of application identifiers becomes one of the healthcare provider facility’s master dictionary lists. Since applications fulfilling different application roles can send and receive referral messages, the assigning authority application identifier may not identify the application sending or receiving a particular message. Data elements on the Message Header (MSH) segment are available to identify the actual sending and receiving applications.
