#### 8.8.9.33 OM1-33 Contraindications to Observations (CWE) 00618

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains the diagnosis or problem for which the test is a contraindication or of possible danger (e.g., pacemaker, pregnancy, diabetes). For example, if the test identified in OM1 was an intravenous pyelogram, this field would include warnings about the use of contrast media in diabetes. The contraindication diagnoses should be separated by repeat delimiters. Refer to Table 0640 - Contraindications to Observations in Chapter 2C for valid values.

Most contraindication rules will be transmitted as free text. In such cases, the contents serve only as information for human reading. However, an alternative for machine readable contraindication rules also exists. The rule may be defined formally in the Arden Syntax (ASTM 1460-1992) which has syntax for defining algebraic and transcendental equations, as well as temporal and logical selection criteria based on patient information stored in the computer record. Reflex rules that are written in Arden Syntax should begin and end with a double semi-colon (;;), the Arden slot delimiter.
