#### 8.8.10.9 OM2-9 Delta Check Criteria (DLT) 00634

Components: &lt;Normal Range (NR)> ^ &lt;Numeric Threshold (NM)> ^ &lt;Change Computation (ID)> ^ &lt;Days Retained (NM)>

Subcomponents for Normal Range (NR): &lt;Low Value (NM)> & &lt;High Value (NM)>

Definition: This field applies to numeric tests/observations with a nature code of A or C (see _OM1-18 - Nature of Service/Test/Observation_). The field describes the information that controls delta check warnings and includes four components.

1) The range to which the following applies: &lt;low & high>.\
All the ranges are defined in terms of the customary reporting units given in _OM2-2 - Units of Measure_. If no value range is given, the check applies to all values.

2) The numeric threshold of the change that is detected, e.g., 10.

3) Whether the change is computed as a percent change or an absolute change. This component can have two possible values:

> % indicates a percent change\
> a absolute change

4) The length of time that the service retains a value for computing delta checks. This is recorded in number of days.

> More than one delta check rule can apply. 13&16^10^%^100~16.1&20^2^a^100 implies that the delta check will trigger on a 10% change when the value of the observation is between 13 and 16. The check will trigger on an absolute change of 2 when the value is between 16.1 and 20. In both cases, the system will keep the last result for 100 days. In this example, beyond 100 days, the computer will not compute a delta check because it will not have a comparison value.
