#### 8.8.11.4 OM3-4 Normal Text/Codes for Categorical Observations (CWE) 00638

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: Certain observations/tests with a nature code of A or C (see _OM1-18 - Nature of Service/Test/Observation_) have text (alpha) results (e.g., reactive, nonreactive). Alpha normals for those tests should be entered in this field (e.g., "nonreactive"). Refer to Table 0654 - Normal Text/Codes for Categorical Observations in Chapter 2C for valid values.

The format of this field is:

The first component is a code taken from a standard code source list. The second component is the text associated with the code. The third component is the identification of the code table source. When only a text description of a possible answer is available, it is recorded as ^&lt;text>.

Care should be taken to transmit only those results that are considered normal for that test. A drug screen may have possible results of "negative" and "positive." However, only a result of "negative" is considered to be normal. When an observation has more than one "normal" result, multiple values in this field should be separated with a repeat delimiter.
