#### 8.8.9.7 OM1-7 Other Service/Test/Observation IDs for the Observation (CWE) 00592

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains all alias codes/identifiers for this observation. If more than one alias code needs to be specified, multiple three-component, CWE-format entries (&lt;code 1>^&lt;name 1>^&lt;code system 1>) may be given, separated by repeat delimiters. An observation may have as many names/codes as are applicable (e.g., ICD9, ACR-NEMA, SNOMED, and READ). We encourage the inclusion of as many different codes as may apply to assist cross-system mapping of terminology. All components of each triplet should be non-null (that is, names and coding system IDs within the CWE data type are required in addition to codes). Refer to Table 0632 - Other Service/Test/Observation IDs for the Observation in Chapter 2C for valid values.

Because the size (dose) of a treatment can also be an observation, codes that identify treatments (e.g., NDC, ICCS) may also be included in this field.

**Note:** In this field, the names within the CWE data type are required.
