#### 8.8.12.5 OM4-5 Container Units (CWE) 00645

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains the units of measure of the container volume. If the units are ISO+ units, they should be recorded as single case abbreviations. If the units are ANS+ or L (local), the units and the source code table must be recorded, except that in this case, component delimiters should be replaced by subcomponent delimiters. For example, 1 indicates liters, whereas pt&&ANS+ indicates pints (ANSI units). The default unit is milliliters (ml), which should be assumed if no units are reported. This field repeats to accommodate all the possible specimen that will be allowed. If a container is preferred, only that container units should be messaged here with the alternate containers messaged in a repeat OM4 segment. Refer to Table 0658 - Container Units in Chapter 2C for valid values.
