#### 4A.4.1.4 RXO-4 Requested Give Units (CWE) 00295

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field indicates the units for the give amount. Refer to Table 0748 - Requested Give Units in Chapter 2C for valid values.

The RXO-1, RXO-2 and RXO-4 are mandatory unless the prescription is transmitted as free text using RXO-6, then RXO-1, RXO-2, and RXO-4 may be blank and the first subcomponent of RXO-6 must be blank.

**Note:** These units can be a "compound quantity"; i.e., the units may contain the word "per." For example, micrograms per KG (micg/kg) is an acceptable value, which means that the units are micrograms per KG (of body weight). See Chapter 7 for full definition of ISO+ units.

A table of standard units is needed to define standard abbreviations for compound units. Until such a table is agreed on, a user-defined table is needed for each site. If the interpretation of a compound unit requires knowledge of some observation results (such as body weight or height), these results can be sent in the same order message using the optional OBX segments.
