#### 4A.4.6.25 RXG-25 Give Barcode Identifier (CWE) 01694

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains the pharmacy system’s assigned barcode number for the give occurrence. For IV orders, many pharmacy systems generate a barcode number to identify a specific bag/bottle of the order. This number can be an instance identifier; unique for the patient, drug combination, and schedule instance or it may be just a drug identifier. Refer to Table 0745 - Give Barcode Identifier in Chapter 2C for valid values.

The composition and use of the barcode number is dependent on application negotiation. An example of this field follows: The barcode number is in the following format, 9XXXXXXX000. The number '9' is a constant, XXXXXXX is seven (7) characters for a unique identifier assigned or derived from the patient account and order ID and 000 is the zero-filled three (3) character IV bottle number.

The maximum length of the first component of this field is 40 characters to allow for the maximum existing barcode length in use today. The second component contains the description of the item being coded and the third component may define the barcode type.

12345678901^IV bottle^3X9
