#### 4A.4.1.18 RXO-18 Requested Give Strength (NM) 01121

Definition: Required when RXO-1-requested give code does not specify the strength; optionally included otherwise. This is the numeric part of the strength, used in combination with _RXO-19-requested give strength units_.

The need for strength and strength unit fields in addition to the amount and amount units fields included in various RX_ segments requires explanation. Physicians can write a prescription for a drug such as Ampicillin in two ways. One way would be: "Ampicillin 250 mg capsules, 2 capsules four times a day." In this case the give amount would be 2, the give units would be capsules, the strength would be 250 and the strength units would milligrams.

However, the provider could also write the pharmaceutical treatment as "Ampicillin 500 mg four times a day." In this case the give amount would be 500 and the give units would be milligrams. The strength would not be reported in the RXO segment because it is not specified; the drug could be given in two 250 mg caps or one 500 mg cap. But the pharmacist would dispense a specific capsule size and would record the strength in the RXE segment as 250 or 500, depending upon which capsule size was dispensed.

Some coding systems imply the strength, units, route of administration, and manufacturer of substances within a single instructional code. NDC codes, for example, usually imply not only the medical substance, but also the strength, the units, and the form, e.g., 0047-0402-30^Ampicillin 250 MG CAPS^NDC. So all of this information can also be completely specified in _RXO-1-requested give code_ and in the analogous CWE/CNE fields in other pharmacy/treatment segments. In this case, it is not necessary to use the strength and strength units fields to specify this information.
