#### 4.14.3.5 BTX-5 CP Commercial Product (CWE) 01739

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains the code and/or text to identify a commercial product. Examples of commercial products are blood derivatives such as Rh Immune Globulin and Factor VIII concentrate, Leukoreduction filters, and blood administration sets.

Either code and/or text may be absent. However, the code is always placed in the first component position and any free text in the second component. Thus, free text without a code must be preceded by a component delimiter. Free text can be utilized if no update is to occur. Refer to file:///E:\V2\v2.9%20final%20Nov%20from%20Frank\V29_CH02C_Tables.docx#HL70512[User-Defined Table 0512 - Commercial Product] in Chapter 2C, Code Tables, for suggested values.

This field is required for commercial blood products and is not applicable to blood component messages.
