#### 4.14.3.3 BTX-3 BC Component (CNE) 01737

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: The Blood Component field includes an identifier and description of the specific blood component. Refer to Table 0582 - BC Component in Chapter 2C for valid values.

The identifier consists of a numeric or alphanumeric product code that represents the type of blood component. The coding system will be determined by the bar code labeling system on the particular component of blood. The preferred coding system is _ISBT 128_.

If using _ISBT 128_ labeling standard, the product code will consist of an 8-character alphanumeric code, starting with an alpha character and including the component class, donation type/intended use and division indicator.

If using CODABAR product labeling standard, the product code is a 5-digit number.

This field is required for blood components and is not applicable for commercial product messages.
