#### 4.5.1.25 ORC-25 Order Status Modifier (CWE) 01473

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field is a modifier or refiner of the ORC-5-Order status field. This field may be used to provide additional levels of specificity or additional information for the defined order status codes. Unlike the Order Status field, which is controlled by an HL7 defined table, this field is a CE data type allowing applications to support an unlimited library of Order Status Modifier codes.

Usage Rule: This field may only be populated if the ORC-5-Order Status field is valued.

Examples: An LIS processing an order with an order status of IP may send an update using the order status modifier to indicate the progress of the order through the laboratory or to indicate that the order has been sent to an external laboratory. Another example using the non-medical orders would be a case in which a phone has been ordered delivered to a patient’s room but has been disconnected temporarily. The ORC-5-Order status indicates IP and the ORC-25-Order status modifier would indicate a disconnected status. A third example involves pharmacy dispenses. It is sometimes not enough to know that a prescription is being dispensed. The ORC-25-Order status modifier would indicate if a label had been printed, the prescription filled, or the prescription sold.

Refer file:///E:\V2\v2.9%20final%20Nov%20from%20Frank\V29_CH02C_Tables.docx#HL70950[HL7 Table 0950 – Order Status Modifier] in Chapter 2C, Code Tables__.__
