#### 4.5.6.4 IPC-4 Scheduled Procedure Step ID (EI) 01660

Components: &lt;Entity Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Namespace ID (IS)> ^ &lt;Universal ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Universal ID Type (ID)>

Definition: This field is the identifier of a particular Procedure Step (sub-procedure) of the Requested Procedure that the workflow management IDIS selected to perform as a part of the order for imaging service. It is a case of the Entity Identifier data type (section 2.A.28). Its first component is a string that identifies the Procedure Step. A limit of sixteen (16) characters is required to allow compatibility with DICOM. This string must uniquely identify the Procedure Step within the scope of the Requested Procedure. This uniqueness must persist over time. See DICOM Standard Part 3 for further details on DICOM Attribute (0040,0009) that conveys information identical to the component one of this field.

The second through fourth components contain the ID of the workflow management IDIS, in the form of the HD data type (see section 2.A.36, "HD - hierarchic designator"). The second component is a user-defined coded value that uniquely defines the application from other applications on the network. A limit of five (5) characters is suggested but not required. The second component of the Requested Procedure number always identifies the actual filler of an order.

A Procedure Step is an arbitrarily defined scheduled unit of service, which is specified by the Procedure Plan for a Requested Procedure. A Procedure Step prescribes Protocol that may be identified by one or more protocol codes. A Procedure Step involves equipment (e.g., imaging Modality equipment, anesthesia equipment, surgical equipment, transportation equipment), human resources, consumable supplies, location, and time (e.g., start time, stop time, duration). While in the context of Imaging Service request the scheduling of a Procedure Step might include only a general designation of imaging Modality that could be satisfied by multiple pieces of the same equipment type, the performance of one instance of a Procedure Step involves one and only one piece of imaging Modality equipment.
