#### 4.5.6.2 IPC-2 Requested Procedure ID (EI) 01658

Components: &lt;Entity Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Namespace ID (IS)> ^ &lt;Universal ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Universal ID Type (ID)>

Definition: This field is the identifier of the Requested Procedure that the workflow management IDIS selected to perform as a part of the order for the imaging service. It is a case of the Entity Identifier data type (section 2.A.28). The first component of this field is a string that identifies the Requested Procedure. A limit of sixteen (16) characters is required to allow compatibility with DICOM. This string must uniquely identify the Requested Procedure within the scope of the order (as specified by accession number). This uniqueness must persist over time. See DICOM Standard Part 3 for further details on DICOM Attribute (0040,0001) that conveys information identical to the component one of this field.

The second through fourth components contain the ID of the workflow management IDIS, in the form of the HD data type (see section 2.A.36, "HD - hierarchic designator"). The second component is a user-defined coded value that uniquely defines the application from other applications on the network. A limit of five (5) characters is suggested but not required. The second component of the Requested Procedure number always identifies the actual filler of an order.

A Requested Procedure is an instance of a Procedure of a given Procedure Type. An instance of a Requested Procedure includes all of the items of information that are specified by an instance of a Procedure Plan that is selected for the Requested Procedure by the imaging service provider. This Procedure Plan is defined by the imaging service provider on the basis of the Procedure Plan templates associated with the considered Procedure Type. An Imaging Service Request may include requests for several different Requested Procedures. The purpose of this entity is to establish the association between Imaging Service Requests and Procedure Types, to convey the information that belongs to this association and to establish the relationships between Requested Procedures and the other entities that are needed to describe them. A single Requested Procedure of one Procedure Type is the smallest unit of service that can be requested, reported, coded and billed. Performance of one instance of a Requested Procedure is specified by exactly one Procedure Plan. A Requested Procedure leads to one or more Scheduled Procedure Steps involving Protocols as specified by a Procedure Plan. A Requested Procedure may involve one or more pieces of equipment.

Each OMI message shall convey information about Requested Procedure(s) pertaining to one order. Pair of Segments ORC/OBR shall correspond to each requested procedure. If the Requested Procedure is comprised of multiple Procedure Steps, multiple IPC segments shall be included for each ORC/OBR pair in the message. In this case, the value of the IPC-2 field shall be identical in all IPC segments related to the same Requested Procedure.
