#### 4.5.6.8 IPC-8 Scheduled Procedure Step Location (CWE) 01664

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field specifies a locally defined physical location of the modality resource being requested for performance of particular Scheduled Procedure Step. Although location is usually defined geographically (such as identification of a campus, building, floor, etc.) it may be used for identification of a pool of equipment (resources) formed by any other means. Values for the field shall be drawn from a locally defined coding scheme. Refer to Table 0606 - Scheduled Procedure Step Location in Chapter 2C for valid values.

For example, the pool may be defined as a set of three CT scanners belonging to an imaging center within a hospital. Two of these scanners may also be grouped into another pool based on their location at a building A, whereas the third scanner may be in a pool by itself due to its location in a building B.

If this field contains more than one location code, the equipment may be drawn from several resource pools.

If this field is empty and the fields IPC-7 and IPC-9 are also empty, it is assumed that a particular Procedure Step may be performed by any instance of equipment of a particular type within an organization.

See DICOM Standard Part 3 for further details on DICOM Attribute (0040,0011) that conveys information identical to component one of this field. A limit of sixteen (16) characters for the first component is required to allow compatibility with DICOM.
