### 4.6.2 Ordering non-medical services

The patient requests hospital specific services for a certain period of time. This can be a phone, fax, or TV in the room, or the delivery of a newspaper every day. Another example may be the use of specialized chip cards that give access to hospital specific services. Typically, a request for these services is made at the time of admission. Another example may be the printing of a form (e.g., the receipt for a payment). In case of using phones it might be a detailed list of calls for a patient or for a special extension.

To support these scenarios, the following fields are used to communicate the appropriate message:

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| Segment/Field | Definition |
| ORC-1 | Order Control |
| ORC-2 | Placer Order Number |
| ORC-5 | Order Status |
| TQ1-7 | Start Date/Time |
| TQ1-8 | End Date/Time |
| ORC-16 | Order Control Code Reason |
| ORC-25 | Order Status Modifier |
| OBR-4 | Universal Service ID |
| OBX-5 | Observation Value |
| FT1-17 | Fee Schedule |
| FT1-11 | Transaction amount – extended |
| BLG | Billing segment |

• ORC-1, ORC-2, OBR-4, OBX-5\
These services can be started, discontinued, canceled, locked, etc., according to the ORC-1 Order control code. The order is identified through ORC-2 Placer order number. The service itself is specified in the field OBR-4 Universal service ID. User defined codes are used to identify the specific services. The identification of the object of the service, e.g., phone number or card number, is done using the OBX-5 Observation value. The ORC-25 Order Status Modifier is used to refine the status of the universal service ID. For example, in the case of issuing chip cards, these fields would be valued as follows:

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ORC-1 | OBR-4 (in textual form) | ORC-16.1 Code | Description |
| NW | chip card |  | Issue a chip card the first time |
| XO | chip card | defective | Change the previous order. Issue a new chip card for a defective one. |
| XO | chip card | lost | Change the previous order. Issue a new chip card for a defective one. |
| DC | Return chip card |  | Cancel the chip card order |
| DC | Return chip card | lost | Cancel the chip card order because lost. |
| DC | Return chip card | defective | Cancel the chip card order because defective. |

Use of different universal service IDs allows for the ability to charge an additional fee.

• TQ1-7/8\
The field TQ1 Quantity/timing describes time periods during which the requested service is valid. The components 4 and 5 denote the start and end date/time.

• ORC-5\
In this field information on the status of the service can be transmitted. This field can be used in particular in response to a query message.

• ORC-25\
This field allows for refining the status of the requested universal service, e.g., to change an order for a chip card in order to distribute a new card for a lost one.

• BLG-1,2,3\
These fields indicate to the financial system that charges are to be invoiced for this service.

• FT1-17\
In some cases it is necessary that the placer defines a special tariff the filler has to use for computing the final balance.

• FT1-11\
In combination with the tariff the patient can prepay the ordered service. This may be helpful when the patient uses services provided by the hospital in order to use the service from the beginning. FT1-6 must be valued at "PY".\
If no amount is prepaid a limit can be established according to a special tariff. This depends on the setup of the filling system. In such a case the hospital grants a credit to the patient.

**Phone Number Assignment**

In case the patient requests a bedside phone and the number of this phone is assigned to that patient personally, a number of messages are transmitted. The objective is to connect a phone number to a patient and a room.

The update of the location master file depends on the setup of the private branch exchange system (PABX):

b) **Variable Numbering System\
**On admission the patient is assigned his or her personal call number, which he or she retains throughout that patient’s stay, including if the patient is transferred. The patient can always be reached under the same call number.\
To understand the mechanism for M05 events it is important to know that two different sets of phone numbers exist: one is a pool to be used when querying for a phone number for a patient; the other one is used for temporary assign­ments when no patient is lying in the bed (i.e., the bed is free).

c) **Fixed Numbering System\
**On admission the system issues the patient with a telephone and/or TV authorization. This authorization key must be entered into the phone to activate it.\
No M05 messages are necessary if a fixed numbering system is used: Each telephone connection is assigned a permanent call number when the system is set up.

When the patient is admitted, an ADT^A01 message is sent to create a patient record in the phone number assigning application. Typically, the patient ID (PID-3), patient location (PV1-3), and visit number (PV1-19) are at least required. This message is acknowledged accordingly with an ACK. Then, the order for the phone number to the phone number assigning application is placed with the ORM^O01 message where the essential fields are ORC-1 = "NW", ORC-2 = &lt;placer order number>, and OBR-4 = "Phone".

The ORR^O02 message is used to acknowledge the order and communicate the filler order number and order status. Then, when the phone number is available, an ORU^R01 message is used to communicate the phone number using OBX-5 for the phone number.

Any status changes to the order are communicated with the ORM^O01 message where ORC-1 = "SC", ORC-2 = &lt;placer order number>, ORC-3 = &lt;filler order number>, ORC-5 = &lt;order status>, OBR-4 = "Phone", and OBX-5 = &lt;Phone Number of Patient>. The status change is acknowledged with the ORR^O02 message.

Next, the location master files are updated. The phone number assigning application may send a MFN^M05 message to have the location master file reflect the phone number assignment as well. The fields on the message are valued as follows:

After processing the order: MFI-1 = "LOC", MFI-3 = "UPD", MFI-5 = &lt;effective date/time>, MFE-1 = "MUP", LOC-1 = &lt;patient location>, LOC-3 = "B" (bed), LOC-6 = &lt;Phone Number of Patient>. This message is acknowledged using the MFK^M05 message.

**Transfer a patient (A02)**

If a patient keeps the same phone number during the whole visit the assigned phone number must be mapped to a different phone outlet whenever a patient is transferred to a new location. In that case, the ADT^A02 message is sent to the phone number assigning application. That application not only acknowledges the message, but also sends an ORM^O01 message with ORC-1 = "SC" and the other fields the same as described in the Phone Number Assignment section. Additionally, it sends a MFN^M05 message to change the location master file accordingly for the old location and another MFN^M05 to synchronize the phones for the new location.

**Leave of absence (A21/A22)**

When the patient leaves the hospital or the bed is vacated for a significant amount of time, the phone needs to be de-activated and re-activated appropriately. The same ORM^O01 and MFN^M05 messages are used as described above following the ADT^A21 and ADT^22 messages.

Patient makes calls or (de-)activates his phone.

The patient can use the phone whenever he wants to. This implies that his balance does not exceed the limit. Otherwise the phone is deactivated automatically. Furthermore the patient can activate or deactivate the phone by entering the authorization key for his own. In these scenarios the phone number assigning application sends and ORM^O01 message with ORC-1 = "OD" and the appropriate order status. The status update is necessary to provide a call switching system with the actual information.

**Discharge a patient (A03)**

When the patient is discharged, the ADT^A03 message is sent to indicate a discharge. The phone number assigning application sends an ORM^O01 message with a change of status to indicate completion of the order, as well as an MFN^M05 message to synchronize the location master file.

After discharging a patient his final charges must be billed. Using the query P04 returns the data in a display oriented format which can be used for printing. Alternatively a print request can be used. The billing system issues a QRY^P04 message where the fields are valued as follows: QRD-2 = "R" (record oriented format), QRD-3 = "I" (immediate response), QRD-8.1 = &lt;Patient ID>, QRF-2 = &lt;start date/time>, and QRF-3 = &lt;end date/time>. The phone number assigning applications responds with a DSR^P04 message with the data in DSP-3.

**Note:** The original mode query, including QRD and QRF segments were retained for backward compatibility only as of v 2.4. The reader is therefore referred to chapter 5, section 5.4, for the current query/response message structure.

**Phone Call Queries (Z73)**

The new query modes using a query by parameter query with a virtual table response allows for obtaining call information from the phone system to be used for charging. The query can be for accumulated data or detailed data. Both requests use this conformance statement:

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| Query ID: | Z73 |
| Query Name: | Information about Phone Calls |
| Query Type: | Query |
| Query Trigger: | QBP^Z73^QBP_Z73 |
| Query Mode: | Both |
| Response Trigger: | RTB^Z74^RTB_Z74 |
| Query Priority: | Immediate |
| Query Characteristics: | Returns response sorted by _Phone Number_ |
| Purpose: | Retrieve all information about phone calls made during a defined interval either in a detailed or an accumulative format. The identifier for the patient must be given. |

QBP^Z73^QBP_Z73: QBP Message

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Segments | Description | Status | Chapter |
| MSH | Message Header Segment |  | 2.15.9 |
| [\{ SFT }] | Software |  | 2.15.12 |
| [ UAC ] | User Authentication Credential |  | 2 |
| QPD | Query Parameter Definition |  | 5.5.4 |
| RCP | Response Control Parameter |  | 5.5.6 |

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Acknowledgement Choreography |  |  |  |
| QBP^Z73^QBP_Z73 |  |  |  |
| Field name | Field Value: Original mode | Field Value: Enhanced Mode |  |
| MSH-15 | Blank | NE | AL, ER, SU |
| MSH-16 | Blank | NE | NE |
| Immediate Ack | - | - | ACK^Z73^ACK |
| Application Ack | RTB^Z74^RTB_Z74 | - | RTB^Z74^RTB_Z74 |

QPD Input Parameter Specification:

|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Field Seq. (Query ID=Z73) | Name | Key/ Search | Sort | LEN | TYPE | Opt | Rep | Match Op | TBL | Segment Field Name | Service Identifier Code | ElementName |
| 1 | Patient ID | K | Y | 80 | CX | R |  | = |  | PID.3 |  | PID.3 Patient ID |
| 2 | Date Range |  |  | 53 | DR | O |  | contains= |  |  |  |  |
| 3 | Detailed |  |  | 2 | ID | O |  | = | 0136 |  |  |  |

Input Parameter Field Description and Commentary:

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Field | Component | DT | Description |
| Patient ID |  | CX | Components: &lt;ID (ST)> ^ &lt;check digit (ST)> ^ &lt;code identifying the check digit scheme employed (ID)> ^ &lt;assigning authority (HD)> ^ &lt;identifier type code (IS)> ^ &lt;assigning facility (HD)> |
|  |  |  | This field contains a patient identification code to identify the requested person. |
|  |  |  | If this field is not valued, no values for this field are considered to be a match. |
| Date Range |  | DR | This field specifies the range of time, the requested records should match. |
|  |  |  | If this field is not valued, all values for this field are considered to be a match. |
| Detailed |  | ID | This field specifies whether the output should be detailed. (no cumulative records). |
|  |  |  | If this field is not valued, a detailed result is returned. |
|  |  |  | When Detailed=Y is requested, one record for each call is returned. Each detailed record will contain columns 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 9 (Providor, Region, Extension, Destination, Date/Time, Duration, Units, Amount) for each call. |
|  |  |  | When detailed=N, the query is for accumulated data. In this case, one row record per extension is returned. |
|  |  |  | Each row will return columns 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, and 9 (Provider, Region, Quantity, Units, Amount) from the output virtual table. |

Response Grammar:

RTB^Z74^RTB_Z74: Personnel Information Message

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Segments | Description | Status | Chapter |
| MSH | Message Header |  | 2.15.9 |
| MSA | Message Acknowledgement |  | 2.15.8 |
| [\{ ERR }] | Error |  | 2.15.5 |
| [\{ SFT }] | Software |  | 2.15.12 |
| [ UAC ] | User Authentication Credential |  | 2 |
| QAK | Query Acknowledgement |  | 5.5.2 |
| QPD | Query Parameter Definition |  | 5.5.4 |
| [ | --- ROW_DEFINITION begin |  |  |
| RDF | Table Row Definition Segment |  | 5.5.7 |
| [\{ RDT }] | Table Row Data Segment |  | 5.5.8 |
| ] | --- ROW_DEFINITION end |  |  |
| [ DSC ] | Continuation Pointer |  | 2.15.4 |

|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Acknowledgement Choreography |  |  |  |
| RTB^Z74^RTB_Z74 |  |  |  |
| Field name | Field Value: Original mode | Field Value: Enhanced Mode |  |
| MSH-15 | Blank | NE | AL, ER, SU |
| MSH-16 | Blank | NE | NE |
| Immediate Ack | ACK^Z73^ACK | - | ACK^Z73^ACK |
| Application Ack | - | - | - |

Virtual Table:

|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ColName (Z74) | Key/ Search | Sort | LEN | TYPE | Opt | Rep | Match Op | TBL | Segment Field Name | LOINC or HL7 code | ElementName |
| Provider |  |  | 40 | ST | R |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Region |  |  | 40 | ST | R |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Extension |  |  | 250 | XTN | O |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Destina­tion number |  |  | 250 | XTN | O |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Date/Time |  | Y | 24 | DTM | O |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Quantity |  |  | 4 | NM | O |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Duration |  |  | 4 | NM | O |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Units |  |  | 4 | NM | O |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Amount |  |  | 8 | MO | O |  |  |  |  |  |  |
