#### 10.6.5.3 AIG-3 Resource ID (CWE) 00897

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains the ID number and name of the resource being requested or scheduled for an appointment. This field is used to identify a specific resource being requested, or a specific resource that has been scheduled for an appointment. If the specific resource is not known but the type of resource is, _AIG-4 Resource Type_ is used to identify the type of resource required or scheduled.

At a minimum, the ID number component should be supplied to identify either the specific resource being requested or the specific resource that has been scheduled. For inter-enterprise communications, for which a shared ID number may not be available, the minimum components required to uniquely identify a resource may be defined by site-specific negotiations.

This field is conditionally required for this segment. In new schedule request messages, it is required if the request asks that a specific resource be scheduled. For all other request messages, the specific resource should be identified if the information is available (either because a specific resource was initially requested, or because the filler application returned the ID of the specific resource that has been scheduled).

This field is required for all unsolicited transactions from the filler application.

This field is optional for all query transactions.
