#### 2.13.8.8 MSA-8 Message Waiting Priority (ID) 01828

Definition: If present, indicates that the Sending Application has messages waiting on a queue for the Receiving Application. These messages would then need to be retrieved via a query. This facilitates receiving applications that cannot receive unsolicited messages (i.e., polling). The code specified identifies how important the most important waiting message is (and can govern how soon the receiving application is required to poll for the message).

For example, if there are 3 low priority messages, 1 medium priority message and 1 high priority message, the message waiting priority would be 'high', because that is the highest priority of any message waiting.

With some applications, there is no guarantee that the sending application will be running. The receiving application is therefore unable to submit unsolicited messages. To mitigate this, a polling approach is used where the receiving application requests any queued messages when it is connected. To avoid the network overhead of continuous polling, the sending application needs a way to indicate that there are queued messages awaiting retrieval. It is also useful to provide an indication of the importance of those messages to indicate how quickly they must be retrieved.

Refer to file:///E:\V2\v2.9%20final%20Nov%20from%20Frank\V29_CH02C_Tables.docx#HL70520[_HL7 Table 0520 - Message Waiting Priority_] in Chapter 2C, Code Tables, for valid values.

See MSA-7 above for Use Case.
