### 2.7.3 Deprecating messages or message constituents

Any required, optional or conditional constituent of an HL7 message, including the message itself, MAY be deprecated. This means that one of the following situations has occurred:

> • The message or message constituent no longer has a meaningful purpose
>
> • The message or message constituent has been replaced by a better method

Language will be inserted stating the fact of deprecation, the version in which the deprecation occurred, and what message or message constituent, if any, replaces it. The phrase "Retained for backward compatibility only in version 2.x; refer to section n.m instead" will be the standard language for such an occurrence.

The fact of deprecation SHOULD NOT affect either the sender or the receiver because the message or message constituent is retained for backward compatibility. Implementers, by site agreement, MAY agree to not support deprecated message constituents.

The following are allowed:

a) A message MAY be deprecated.

c) A trigger event MAY be deprecated.

d) A message structure MAY be deprecated.

e) A segment in an existing message MAY be deprecated. Implementers, by site agreement, MAY agree to not support deprecated segments. If the segment that is to be deprecated has dependents the entire segment group SHALL be deprecated. For example, in a group [\{ABC[DEF][\{GHI}]], DEF and/or GHI MAY be deprecated, but ABC cannot be deprecated without deprecating the whole.

f) A field MAY be deprecated by HL7. Before deprecating a field, HL7 SHALL ensure that all message structures which use that field have an appropriate non-deprecated location to move the data. Implementers, by site agreement, MAY agree to not use deprecated fields.

g) A data type MAY be deprecated provided all fields referencing it have been deprecated or there is an explicit statement that the data type is not to be used in any field defined in the future.

h) A data type component MAY be deprecated.

i) A table MAY be deprecated. This includes HL7 tables, HL7-EXT tables, user-defined tables, imported external tables and reference to external tables. Before deprecating a table, HL7 SHALL ensure that no references to the table exist.

j) An entry in an HL7-defined table MAY be deprecated. The table itself SHOULD be reviewed if it contains a substantial number of deprecated members.

k) An entry in an imported external table SHALL **NOT** be deprecated.
