#### 7.4.2.23 OBX-23 Performing Organization Name (XON) 02283 

Components: &lt;Organization Name (ST)> ^ &lt;Organization Name Type Code (CWE)> ^ &lt;WITHDRAWN Constituent> ^ &lt;WITHDRAWN Constituent> ^ &lt;WITHDRAWN Constituent> ^ &lt;Assigning Authority (HD)> ^ &lt;Identifier Type Code (ID)> ^ &lt;Assigning Facility (HD)> ^ &lt;Name Representation Code (ID)> ^ &lt;Organization Identifier (ST)>

Subcomponents for Organization Name Type Code (CWE): &lt;Identifier (ST)> & &lt;Text (ST)> & &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> & &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> & &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> & &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> & &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> & &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> & &lt;Original Text (ST)> & &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> & &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> & &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> & &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> & &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> & &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> & &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> & &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> & &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> & &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> & &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> & &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> & &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Subcomponents for Assigning Authority (HD): &lt;Namespace ID (IS)> & &lt;Universal ID (ST)> & &lt;Universal ID Type (ID)>

Subcomponents for Assigning Facility (HD): &lt;Namespace ID (IS)> & &lt;Universal ID (ST)> & &lt;Universal ID Type (ID)>

Definition: **_Retained for backwards compatibility as of v 2.7 only. This field is now represented through the PRT segment._** This field contains the name of the organization/service responsible for performing the service. When this field is null, the receiving system assumes that the observations were produced by the sending organization. The information for performing organization is recorded as an XON data type. In the US, the Medicare number of the performing organization is suggested as the identifier (component 10).

For lab, this field specifies the laboratory that produced the test result described in this OBX segment. It should be reported explicitly when the test results are produced at outside laboratories, for example. This information supports CLIA regulations in the US. For the US producing laboratories, which are CLIA certified, the CLIA identifier should be used for the organization identifier (component 10).
