#### 7.4.2.8 OBX-8 Interpretation Codes (CWE) 00576

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: One or more codes specifying a categorical assessment of the observation value (OBX.5), such as "Normal", "Abnormal", "Positive", "Negative", "Resistant", "Susceptible", etc.

This field may also be used to convey an assessment of an observation where no legitimate result may be obtained. This includes laboratory assays that are rejected due to the presence of interfering substances, specimen toxicity or failure of quality control.

As a CWE data type, this field may be populated with either HL7-defined codes or codes derived from other code systems (such as SNOMED). See file:///E:\V2\v2.9%20final%20Nov%20from%20Frank\V29_CH02C_Tables.docx#HL70078[_User-defined Table 0078 – Interpretation Code_] for potential entries.

When the filler can discern the normal status of a textual report, such as chest X-ray reports or microbiologic culture, these should be reported as "N" when normal and "A"when abnormal. Multiple codes, e.g., abnormal and worse, would be separated by a repeat delimiter, e.g., "A~W".

Results may also be reported in **shorthand** by reporting the normalcy status without specifying the exact numeric value of the result. Such shorthand is quite common in clinical notes, where physicians will simply say that **the glucose result was normal.** Such shorthand reporting is also seen in drug experience reporting. In such cases, the result can be reported in the OBX by reporting the interpretation code in _OBX-8-Interpretation Codes_ without specifying any value in _OBX-5-observation value._
