#### 7.4.2.15 OBX-15 Producer's ID (CWE) 00583

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: **_Retained for backwards compatibility as of v 2.7 only. This field is now represented through the PRT segment._** This field contains a unique identifier of the responsible producing service. It should be reported explicitly when the test results are produced at outside laboratories, for example. When this field is null, the receiving system assumes that the observations were produced by the sending organization. This information supports CLIA regulations in the US. The code for producer ID is recorded as a CWE data type. In the US, the Medicare number of the producing service is suggested as the identifier. Refer to Table 0624 - Producer’s ID in Chapter 2C for valid values.
