#### 7.8.2.1 CSP-1 Study Phase Identifier (CWE) 01022

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field identifies the phase of the study that a patient has entered. The set of codes will generally be developed for each clinical trial, although there are patterns that trials in particular disease or prevention categories may follow. The phase structure will be based on data collation and reporting needs for the study. It is an operational structure and need not be discussed in the clinical trial protocol documentation or even made known to patient care or data collection personnel. The coding system will usually be developed by the sponsor for multicentered clinical trials to standardize the receipt of automated data. Local codes could be added if an additional local message is desired. Otherwise, local coding conventions will be used. Refer to Table 0587 - Study Phase Identifier in Chapter 2C for valid values.

Example:

2^Init Rx, Crs 1^NCI T93‑0807 Phases
