#### 17.9.1.3 DEV-3 Device Type (CNE) 03483

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains the type of device used in the participation.

See Externally HL7 defined 0961 in Chapter 2C for a list of suggested values. This field can repeat.

When intended to have the additional device information for the device referenced in a PRT segment in the message, DEV-2 must be equal to PRT-10 Device. When PRT-22 Device Type is used, DEV-3 must be equal.

When communicating a UDI Carrier, the UDI may either be uniquely identifying an instance of a device, or a type of device. This can be asserted based on the inclusion or absence of a serial number in the Product Identifier section of the UDI. When the serial number is present, PRT-10 must be used, while if it is absent, PRT-22 must be used.

When communicating a UDI Carrier in this field, the coding system used is limited to FDA (FDAUDI), HIBCC (HIBUDI), ICCBBA (ICCUDI), and GS1 (GS1UDI) coding systems defined in file:///E:\V2\v2.9%20final%20Nov%20from%20Frank\V29_CH02C_Tables.docx#HL70396[HL7 Table 0396].

Condition: Either DEV-2 Unique Device Identifier or DEV-3 Device Type must be valued, or both are valued.
