#### 9.7.3.15 TXA-15 Filler Order Number (EI) 00217

Components: &lt;Entity Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Namespace ID (IS)> ^ &lt;Universal ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Universal ID Type (ID)>

Definition: This field is the order number associated with the filling application. Where a transcription service or similar organization creates the document and uses an internally unique identifier, that number should be inserted in this field. Its first component is a string of characters that identifies an order detail segment (i.e., OBR). This string must uniquely identify the order (as specified in the order detail segment) from other orders in a particular filling application (i.e., transcription service). This uniqueness must persist over time. Where a number is reused over time, a date can be affixed to the non-unique number to make it unique.

The second through fourth components contains the (filler) assigning authority. The (filler) assigning authority is a string of characters that uniquely defines the application from other applications on the network. The second through fourth components of the filler order number always identify the actual filler of an order.

TXA-15 - Condition: If corresponding ORC and/or OBR segments are present in the message and ORC-3 or OBR-3 is valued, this field must be blank. If TXA-14 is valued while ORC-3 or OBR-3 is valued it shall be ignored. See message definitions including TXA for further guidanceon which ORC/OBR pairs to consider.

For further details, please see the definitions provided in Chapter 4, "Orders".
