#### 9.7.3.24 TXA-24 Folder Assignment (CWE) 02378

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field is used to assign documents to folders. These folders are not nested; a document may either be part of none or several folders. In practice this can be used to separate the documents into domain specific types (e.g., cardiology reports, radiology reports), organizational types (e.g., administrational document, billing document), body region types (e.g., chest CT, leg CT), or something else. Furthermore, this information can be combined. This usually depends on the system involved and therefore it must be up to the user to define it. The systems can use the information to define workflows or manage access to the document. Receivers are required to inspect the Coding System component of the CWE data type to accurately interpret the meaning of the code. Senders transmitting messages to Receivers on earlier version of the standard may elect to negotiate business rules to ensure that expected data is not lost. HL7 does not assign positional meaning to user-defined codes. Refer to Table 0791 - Folder Assignment in Chapter 2C for valid values.
