#### *3.4.2.5* PID-5 Patient Name (XPN) 00108

Components: &lt;Family Name (FN)> ^ &lt;Given Name (ST)> ^ &lt;Second and Further Given Names or Initials Thereof (ST)> ^ &lt;Suffix (e.g., JR or III) (ST)> ^ &lt;Prefix (e.g., DR) (ST)> ^ &lt;WITHDRAWN Constituent> ^ &lt;Name Type Code (ID)> ^ &lt;Name Representation Code (ID)> ^ &lt;Name Context (CWE)> ^ &lt;WITHDRAWN Constituent> ^ &lt;Name Assembly Order (ID)> ^ &lt;Effective Date (DTM)> ^ &lt;Expiration Date (DTM)> ^ &lt;Professional Suffix (ST)> ^ &lt;Called By (ST)>

Subcomponents for Family Name (FN): &lt;Surname (ST)> & &lt;Own Surname Prefix (ST)> & &lt;Own Surname (ST)> & &lt;Surname Prefix from Partner/Spouse (ST)> & &lt;Surname from Partner/Spouse (ST)>

Subcomponents for Name Context (CWE): &lt;Identifier (ST)> & &lt;Text (ST)> & &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> & &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> & &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> & &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> & &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> & &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> & &lt;Original Text (ST)> & &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> & &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> & &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> & &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> & &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> & &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> & &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> & &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> & &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> & &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> & &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> & &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> & &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains one or more of the names of the patient. The XPN.7 Name Type Code, and not the order, conveys how the name should be interpreted. As of v2.7, Name Type Code is Required. Refer to file:///E:\V2\v2.9%20final%20Nov%20from%20Frank\V29_CH02C_Tables.docx#HL70200[_HL7 Table 0200 - Name_ _Type_] in Chaper 2C, Code Tables, for valid values. Specification of meaning based on sequence is deprecated.

In addition to allowing repetition of this field for transmitting multiple names with different Name Type Codes, repetition also allows for representing the same name in different character sets based on the value in XPN.8 Name Representation Code.

In order to support “name to use” to indicate how to address the patient, when that does not match their legal name, include an occurrence of Patient Name (PID-5), where the nametype code (PID-5.7) is valued ‘N’.Multiple given names and/or initials are separated by spaces.

For animals, if a Name Type of "R" is used, use "Name Context" to identify the authority with which the animal’s name is registered.
