#### 6.5.16.7 GP2-7 Ambulatory Payment Classification Code (CWE) 01609

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains the derived APC code. This is the APC code used for payment, which is the same as the assigned APC, for all situations except partial hospitalization. If partial hospitalization is billed in this visit, the assigned APC will differ from the APC used for payment. Partial hospitalization is the only time an assigned APC differs from the APC used for payment. The payment APC is used for billing and should be displayed in this field. The first component contains the APC identifier. The second component reports the text description for the APC group. Refer to file:///E:\V2\V29_CH02C_Tables.docx#HL70466[_User-defined table 0466 - Ambulatory Payment Classification Code_] in Chapter 2C, Code Tables, for suggested values. This field is defined by CMS or other regulatory agencies.
