#### 15.4.8.4 STF-4 Staff Type (CWE) 00674

Components: &lt;Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Original Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Identifier (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Text (ST)> ^ &lt;Name of Second Alternate Coding System (ID)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System Version ID (ST)> ^ &lt;Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Coding System OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set OID (ST)> ^ &lt;Second Alternate Value Set Version ID (DTM)>

Definition: This field contains a code identifying what type of staff. Refer to file:///E:\V2\v2.9%20final%20Nov%20from%20Frank\V29_CH02C_Tables.docx#HL70182[_User-defined Table 0182 - Staff type_] in Chapter 2C, Code Tables, for suggested values. This table contains no suggested values. Values may include codes for staff, practitioner, referral agent or agency, etc. This field may repeat to allow for staff to be assigned multiple types.

Typically, this field would be populated with the most granular types that may be associated with the staff. If less granular typing or categorization of the staff is required in addition to the specific type(s) found in this field, the reader is referred to _STF-39 Generic Resource Type or Category_. Thus, while STF-4 may contain the code for a specific staff or practitioner type, STF-39 may contain "staff" or "practitioner". For further discussion of specific and generic types, the reader is referred to _STF-39 Generic Resource Type or Category_.
